of course you've had a very relaxed
approach thank you daniel here is the
home secretary pretty patel at the
downing street briefing
good afternoon i'm joined today by dr
vinda walker
nhs england's regional medical director
for london
and by martin hewitt chair of the
national police chiefs councils
as you know we remained locked in a
fight against coronavirus
the pandemic has occupied our lives for
many months
and we are now grappling with the
emergence of a new and more infectious
strain
we are therefore asking you to stay at
home to protect the nhs
and save lives while we work hard to
roll out the vaccine as quickly as
possible
as of today two million four hundred and
thirty one thousand
six hundred and forty eight people have
been vaccinated across the united
kingdom
today forty five thousand five hundred
thirty people have tested positive for
coronavirus
as of the 10th of january 35 075 people
are currently in hospital with
coronavirus
that is an increase of 22 percent from
this time
last week and sadly
of those who have tested positive for
coronavirus
across all settings 83
203 people have died 1243 fatalities
were reported yesterday my thoughts and
prayers are with the families of those
who've lost their loved ones
to coronavirus these numbers are
horrifying
and they underline why it is absolutely
critical
that everyone plays their part and
follows
the rules we know that most of the
public
are doing exactly that they are doing
the right thing and they are staying at
home
and i want to say thank you to the
millions of people
who are putting our country's collective
health first
to everyone who has put off seeing their
parents grandparents their loved ones
their vulnerable loved ones
thank you you have helped to stop the
spread of the virus
and save lives our ability to get
through the coming weeks and months
depends on each and every one of us
contributing to what is truly
a national effort but a minority of
people
are putting the health of the nation at
risk by not following the rules
that is why the secretary of state for
local government
has today talked to councils about the
role that they have to play in enforcing
the rules
and in saving lives and our police
officers
are now moving more quickly to issuing
the fines
where people are clearly breaching
coronavirus regulations
nearly 45 000 fixed penalty notices have
been issued across the united kingdom
so my message today to anyone refusing
to do
the right thing is simple if you do not
play your part
our selfless police officers who are out
there
risking their own lives every day to
keep us safe
they will enforce the regulations and i
will back them to do so
to protect our nhs and to save lives
our police officers are not immune from
the virus
far too often they are having to risk
their own lives and their own health
by coming into close contact with people
including those who deny the very
existence of coronavirus
to keep us all safe the police
and fire service staff throughout this
pandemic have been
on the front line helping their local
communities
they are the very best of us all and i
know that the public share my gratitude
for their
incredible contribution they're also
there
to help the most in need including
anyone experience or at risk of domestic
abuse
you can leave your home to escape harm
and seek refuge
and anyone who is in immediate danger
should always call
999 we are now at a critical stage in
our battle against this virus
to protect those that you care about and
the capacity of our hospitals
to protect us all please stay at home
to protect the nhs and save lives
on our hand over to martin hewitt the
chair of the national police chief
council
martin thank you home secretary
for the last 10 months police officers
staff and volunteers
across the uk have been out policing
their communities
they've been doing their normal role of
keeping people safe and fighting crime
but they've also been playing their part
in defeating coronavirus
by ensuring compliance with the various
restrictions
that we've all been living with from the
outset we did this in the way that we
always police
working with the public and using common
sense and discretion
in most of our daily encounters it's
been enough to engage with people
to explain the rules and to encourage
compliance
the majority of the public have worked
with us and i thank them for that
but a stubborn number of people have
refused to abide by the regulations
and we have had to use enforcement
powers up to this point
as the home secretary has said across
the whole of the united kingdom
we've issued almost 45 000 fixed penalty
notices
and for that i make no apology
it's very clear that we're now at the
most dangerous stage of the pandemic
there is a real and present risk that
our health service could be overwhelmed
and people our friends and family could
die needlessly
from this virus so we must all play our
part
in stopping that from happening ten
months on
the rules are clear and i urge everyone
to abide by them
with a virus spreading so rapidly
through contact with others
we should all be asking ourselves
whether our reason to leave home
is truly essential those personal
decisions are critical
since october we've been guiding our
officers to move more quickly
to issuing a fine where people are
clearly breaching regulations and
they're not listening to us
and in most cases the person will comply
after one request
but there are still too many who are
choosing not to
and in doing so they're endangering us
all
and so it's important for me to be
really clear at this critical time
we will have more officers out on
dedicated patrols
to take action against the small few who
are letting us all down
and let's remember each of those
officers is putting themselves at risk
in order to keep people safe and to slow
the spread of this disease
and that's why it's so disappointing to
see some of the irresponsible behavior
that we are having to deal with and let
me give just a few recent examples
a boat party in hertfordshire with more
than 40 people
who'd paid 30 pounds each for a ticket
a minibus full of people from different
households
travelling from cheltenham into wales to
go for a walk
and in surrey we issued a ten thousand
pound fine to the organizer of a party
who was trying to claim that it was a
business event
and we're also preventing dangerous
breaches
in bristol at the weekend we arrested a
19 year old man
after finding an advert for an illegal
rave on social media
even in somerset police prevented that
event from starting
issued fines to 38 other people who
showed up
and turned away many more we will not
waste time trying to reason with people
like this
who have no regard for the safety of
others
organizing parties or large gatherings
is dangerous
selfish and totally irresponsible in
light of the current threat that we face
organizers will be fined but so too will
the people who choose to attend
not wearing a face covering on a bus or
a train is dangerous
it risks the lives of other travellers
including those critical workers
who must continue to use public
transport to do their important work
so on those systems unless you're exempt
you can expect a fine
the police service across the uk is
doing all it can
to support the many many people who are
making daily sacrifices
to protect the health of their family
friends and communities
and as more people act sensibly and stay
at home
we will still be visible on your streets
and continuing the work that we've been
doing throughout the pandemic to keep
you safe
our successful staged enforcement
approach remains
but we will not linger on encouragement
for those who are choosing to break the
rules
the rules are clear and we need to abide
by them if we are going to protect the
nhs
and save people's lives thank you martin
dr dawker thank you home secretary and
good afternoon
my name is vinda walker and i'm the nhs
england medical director
in london before the questions begin i'd
like to start by thanking all of my
colleagues
in the nhs in local government in the
london frye brigade and in the
metropolitan police
for the support and their hard work
during the course of this pandemic
this pandemic is the biggest health
emergency this country has faced
since the second world war for the last
few weeks
through the christmas period and right
through the start of the new year
we have been facing three substantial
challenges
at the start of november nhs hospitals
in london
were caring for a thousand patients with
covid19 on christmas day
that had increased four-fold to four
thousand
and today that number has nearly doubled
to just
under eight thousand and more than a
thousand of those
are on critical care the sickest
patients
and i'm grateful to colleagues in other
parts of the country
who have been caring for some of our
patients who have come from london
at the same time as london continues to
care for patients with covid19
we care for nearly three times that
number of patients without covid
but other conditions such as cancer
heart attacks and strokes
and our plans to surge the bed capacity
in london
means that it is important that we
continue to care for the most
ill-covered 19 patients but also other
urgent and emergency conditions
but as the pressure from covid19 has
increased
this has put pressure on the number of
beds that we have for other conditions
that's why yesterday we opened the
nightingale hospital
and admitted our first patients this
time it's taking patients who do not
have covid
and this means that our hospitals have
more beds to care for covid patients
themselves
and for our very sickest patients but we
cannot do this
indefinitely there comes a point where
if the infection gets further out of
control
more and more patients from london will
need to be transferred elsewhere
and all across the country my colleagues
are also seeing a rise in infections
and in pressure on the nhs and so my ask
today
is to obey the government rules for
another reason as well as the ones
described by the home secretary there is
hope
whilst in one hall of the exile center
in london we have opened the nightingale
in another hall we have opened london's
first vaccination center
we're working with 102 local vaccine
services and 39
hospital hubs and in london the nhs has
now vaccinated
hundreds of thousands of people the
majority of them over 80.
i'm a doctor myself and i've been on an
intensive care unit in east london today
and i can tell you covered 19 is a
horrible
horrible disease that leaves so many
including young people breathless and
gasping for life
it plays increased places increasing
pressure on the nhs
so please follow the rules and acts like
you have covid
that will save lives and it will help my
fellow doctors
nurses paramedics physiotherapists and
many other health professions
to do what we're here to do and to serve
you best which is to care for the
sickest
thank you thank you dr dewalker she
moved to our questions i think
our first question this afternoon is
from ian
from preston hi
if the new coverage variant is more
infectious than it was last much
why are the new corbid rules more
relaxed
well ian thank you um let me start off
with that first of all and then
i'll i'll bring martin and dr walker in
i think it's really important to reflect
quite frankly
on the state that we're in right now and
you've heard my remarks martin and dr
dawker's
comments about the impact of covid and
not just this new variant but actually
all the measures that we have put in
place and why we need to have these
rules
i think our message is absolutely
crystal clear this is to stay at home
and
if i made dr dewalker has made a very
very sobering point that we should all
act like we have covid in order to
protect others and this isn't about
rules being more relaxed we have clear
rules
and i would urge everybody across the
country to make sure that we follow
those rules
so that we can protect the nhs and save
lives i think that's absolutely
imperative
dr dewalker did you want to add anything
to that no thank you great martin
no i did the only thing i would say i
think is that the rules
it is fairly simple the basic things
that we need to do
to prevent the spread of the virus which
is prevent that contact with people so
that's staying at home
and only leaving your home if if if it's
one of the
uh one of the exemptions and it's
absolutely essential if everybody does
that
then i think we are we're in the
strongest position to restrict the
the transmission of the disease thanks
martin we'll move on to diane from york
good afternoon when will the vaccination
program prioritize key workers who are
in contact with the public every day
but not health and social care such as
police officers
teachers and supermarket staff thank you
diane thank you for your question and
it's a really important question
actually about prioritization and the
groups that
are being prioritised right now focused
on
dr dewalker's already mentioned the
excel center which is doing great work
in terms of the vaccination
and getting the vaccine out but
effectively we do have the jcvi
which has already identified the top
priority groups
who account for 88 of those who
who are affected by covid and sadly
could also be at risk of dying
so there are the four priority groups
right now um
and we intend to vaccine everyone within
those cohorts between now and the 15th
of february
i should also add that the jvci
and we're all working with them across
government to give everybody this
assurance
we are looking at those who are on the
front line
people such as police officers teachers
and others
who naturally are at occupational risk
of coming
in in contact with the virus you've all
heard me speak today and
martin about police officers fire
officers there are many others on the
front line
and we are absolutely working to make
sure that of course you can get the
vaccine to them
but that means working with the jcvi as
well
dr daworker do you want to comment at
all on the vaccine roll out
thank you home secretary so i completely
agree with what you say
i think what i've said from my comments
earlier shows
how serious this illness is our number
one priority
has to be to prevent death and to
prevent serious illness
i know from colleagues on the joint
committee for vaccinations and
infections they have thought carefully
about this
and used the evidence to show that if we
vaccinate the priority
groups of people that the home
secretaries talked about we will be able
to
reduce the chance that people die and
that is what will get us out of this uh
situation that we're in at the moment
and i think that is absolutely the right
strategy to take
thank you martin yes and i i think it's
a really good
question by diane and i would obviously
support for all of those
key workers who who are having contact
every day but i think it is really
important
to make the point about what police
officers have been doing i started
by saying that for the last 10 months
police officers police staff volunteers
have been out there and of course the
nature of policing
is that those officers are having daily
to deal with people where they have
no idea whether they are or are not
infected
we've worked really well in terms of
providing
protective equipment and and having good
systems in place
but as as one of my chief constable
colleagues described
you can't police at two meters distance
we have to do the job to protect people
to deal with the crime that we've been
dealing with
so it is really important that as soon
as that first phase of the vaccine is
over
and has been has been completed i think
a range of key workers
i know and i know that's happening in
government and that is conversations
that
that i and others have personally had
with government but it is a really
important point that diane makes thank
you martin and we're going to move on
to questions from media the media and
we're going to go first of all to mark
easton from the bbc mark good afternoon
good afternoon thank you and i got a
question for you home secretary
um i'm secretary we're warned we may be
facing a health service
catastrophe so why are the rules of this
lockdown
not as tough as they were last spring
well i think mark first of all if i may
you're right we are speaking
consistently and constantly
day in day out about staying at home
and we're very clear in the reasons as
to why you've all heard us say this and
others across governments cmo and many
others about the impacts on the nhs
the rules are actually very simple
and clear we are meant to stay at home
and
only leave home for a very very limited
number of reasons
and that is obviously to go to work only
if you cannot work from home
in terms of schools schools are open for
the children
pupils of key workers and then of course
you know
outdoor recreation but in a very very
restricted and limited way staying local
i've said that several times over the
last week
and obviously people that need medical
help and support and you've heard me
speak frequently as well about those
that
could suffer from violence domestic
abuse etc these are very very limited
reasons for leaving
and i think you know i i can only
actually echo the words
of dr dewalker you know we are in a
health pandemic right now
everyone has to be conscientious in
their actions and almost act and behave
as if
we have covered therefore restricting
all our social contacts
so the rules are clear and in terms of
police enforcement you know we've spoken
at
length not just today but previously
martin and all my brilliant colleagues
across policing
as to the type of egregious breaches
that we will clamp down on so
the rules are clear martian do you want
to add anything to that at all
no actually i think it is really just to
make that point that
the the stay at home the reducing
contact
i think that is very clear and and
certainly
from from our perspective we will carry
on engaging with people
that's how we have done this from the
beginning we will talk to people
and we will explain but i think the
rules are are clear enough for people to
understand we are 10 months
into this process and you're right that
the regulations have shifted over that
period of time
as as the the pandemic has but i think
it's very clear what people need to do
and people need to accept the personal
responsibility to act properly
to prevent the the spread of the virus
thank you mark
we're going to move on to dan hewitt
from itv dan good afternoon
good afternoon home secretary um you say
the rules are
clear the key question surely is are the
rules
tough enough to contain the current
spread
and question to martin hewitt if i may
there is no designated limit on how far
we can travel for daily exercise
and surrey police and crime commissioner
david munro told times radio earlier the
fact we're having to debate whether the
prime minister broke the rules or not
when he took that seven mile bike ride
he's proof we need more clarity about
them do you think more clarity is needed
on the rules
um i think dan the every we've there's
been a lot of focus today about the
the definition of local and i think
actually if you tried to make a
definition
for every possible circumstance that
would be really challenging
and i don't think we are in a we're in a
position where we want to set a
particular
a particular distance because how would
if a police officer stop somebody how
would you prove
that a person is within or outside that
distance
i think it's it's simpler than that
there is an exemption and let's take
let's
take exercise there is an exemption that
allows you to exercise and i think
that's absolutely right
for people's physical and mental health
and i think you have to ask yourself two
questions
if there is an exemption the first
question is is me going out and doing
this today
essential and and if the answer to that
question is yes
then you have to ask yourself how can i
conduct this exercise
in the safest way possible and by that
that means not putting yourself into a
position
where you're likely to come into contact
with people so i understand why
the issue of local has become quite uh
totemic
but i think it's the wrong question to
ask that we really we all understand the
exemptions
ask yourself whether it's essential and
then do it in the safest possible way
that you can
dan just to add i mean i absolutely
agree with martin's comments i mean
look we are in a pandemic the british
public
are absolutely sensible they're
conscientious they understand the
stay-at-home message
and when it comes to staying at home
that also means staying local
and that equally applies to you know
exercise is important it's important for
people's health and well-being
and that equally applies to exercise
thank you
on the question are the rules tough
enough sorry you said the rules are
clear are the rules
tough enough to contain the current
variant well first of all
the rules are clear the rules are firm
in terms of staying at home
and with that of course dan i think
you've you've been showing some news
bulletins recently of breaches that have
been taking place and you've been out
with the police and others
so you'll know the difference between
those individuals have been compliant
and those that are breaking the rules
the rules are tough enough you've
already heard 45 000
fixed penalty notices that have been
issued you know just
in the recent time since since we've
been in this pandemic
so they are tough enough you know the
message is clear we urge everybody to
continue to
follow the rules the more we follow the
rules the sooner we can drive this
awful atrocious disease down and the
reason why we have these rules
are to absolutely try and contain the
pandemic and to save lives
so you know by sticking with this and
that is the message to everyone again
and again stick with the rules think
about your actions
stay at home stay local and minimize
your social contact and of course we
will get on top of this pandemic
and importantly we'll be able to protect
the nhs so that the nhs can continue
to look after people that are ill with
coronavirus and also roll out the
vaccine in the way in which we're now
seeing this incredible
mass vaccination take place across the
nhs
thanks dan move on to sam coates from
sky
news sam good afternoon good afternoon
home secretary
is there a risk that the government is
concentrating too much
on the easy targets people meeting in
parks
parties and shops when the evidence
suggests the real problem
is in those workplaces that remain open
and on public transport have you got the
resources
and frankly the will to enforce social
distancing
uh in and around workplaces or are you
unwilling to take on bosses because of
the economic
impact and to martin hewitt how
proactively are the police making sure
that workplaces
are covert secure and or do you just
think that's the job of the health and
safety officials in local areas
so that you can concentrate on more of
the examples you highlight
like parties and groups traveling in
minibuses
well let me start off sam first of all
when it comes to
the rules the fact of the matter is our
targets and our objectives is to save
lives
this isn't about you know picking out
individual groups or things of that
nature
you've heard the government consistently
say this
from the cmo to our public health
colleagues dr dewalker this afternoon
and many others as well
from the prime minister to myself and
all my ministerial colleagues
our objectives is to save lives to save
lives and to protect the nhs
so when it comes to the enforcement of
those rules
it is right that we go after those
breaches and we've seen endless
egregious breaches and i've seen my
police officers as well all our
police officers across 43 police forces
do heroic work on that
but at the same time this isn't just for
the police
this is obviously about other aspects of
government so my colleagues you've heard
me speak about the secretary of state
for local government today
working with local councils the police
don't work in isolation they work with
their counterparts in local governments
local authorities have been doing that
consistently
we have clear guidance for businesses
clear guidance for supermarkets and i
want to thank the supermarkets today
that have announced that they're
stepping up their efforts as well
to ensure that people are rightly
wearing face coverings in supermarkets
and they they themselves will be
enforcing those rules and regulations
so this is a collective effort and you
know we have been speaking clearly about
the policing side of things today
but there are so many other aspects of
enforcement and compliance
that other aspects of the state and
government are heavily involved in
martin sam thank you um so let's be
really clear the the primary operating
environment for policing in this is in
the public space
and dealing with those issues that that
i've described and you you've described
the workplace we obviously have worked
really hard to manage all of our own
workplaces for every force across
the uk and making those covid secure and
that is ultimately the responsibility of
any business
any business or owner in that space but
as the home secretary says what's also
happening
across the country every police force is
working
at a local level with all the other
agencies that have responsibilities for
making sure that
the community is safe and that will
include working with local authorities
and all the other authorities that have
a role
within businesses but primarily our
space is the
is the public space and that's the
important place for policing to focus
its attention
thanks martin thank you sam um i'll now
move on to gordon rayner from the
telegraph gordon good afternoon
good afternoon home secretary thank you
um a question for
dr dewalker when you look at experiences
of your colleagues in europe where
hospitals in france and italy
were able to cope with almost 40 000
patients in november without
telling people to stay at home is there
more
the nhs could have done to prepare for
this winter crisis
um and just a question to you home
secretary um
we know that various discussions are
taking place within government about
tightening the rules as a couple of the
other people have already asked about
uh today um at what point will you take
the decision on whether the rules do
need to be tightened
um is it only a matter of time before
that happens and and if that's the case
are you just delaying the inevitable by
not taking a decision now
thank you gordon i'll go to dr walker
first thank you
well over the summer uh we of course
spent a lot of time learning from
the first wave of the pandemic uh
picking out the things that we did
that uh had made a huge difference to
the way in which we managed that first
part
and also learning about things that we
might do differently
one of the things that we did was that
we invested in more
critical care capacity in the nhs in
london
but over the last few weeks as i said in
my opening comments
the pandemic has progressed extremely
quickly
and it's thanks to the efforts of my
colleagues in the nhs you've really gone
to extraordinary efforts over the last
two or three weeks
that we have opened hundreds of beds and
i mean hundreds of beds and
not just the nightingale but in all of
our hospitals
uh to be able to to manage that and it's
because we are part of a national health
service
that we have also been able to work with
my colleagues that i'm very grateful to
in other parts of the country
to make sure that where the nhs in
london
hasn't had the capacity that we have
been able to move patients safely
to other hospitals elsewhere in the nhs
and it's by working together in
partnership that i think the nhs has
been able to manage
an extremely challenging and difficult
situation
thank you gordon to your question about
tightening the rules i mean
as you would expect in government there
are endless discussions taking place
about
you know the state of coronavirus
support and capacity within the nhs
and also lockdown measures right now and
rules per se
now you know we're not going to
speculate on anything conversations
always you know these issues are live
within government
um and rules and ways of working are
always under review
so you know we are constantly right now
looking at
where we are at sadly you've seen the
fact that
too many people are still succumbing to
this dreadful virus
and the fact of the matter is right now
we want people to very much
you know follow the rules that are in
place right now because by following
those rules that is effectively how we
can
collectively whack this virus down get
this virus down
free up capacity in the nhs and
obviously do even more when it comes to
rolling out the vaccine so you know as
i've said all rules are
under review constantly within
government but currently we're focusing
very much on the compliance enforcement
so that we can absolutely support the
nhs and save lives
thank you i will now go on to
rajiv sayal from the guardian rajiv good
afternoon
good afternoon uh this is a question for
you home secretary
how do you expect the public to
understand
what constitutes staying local
when derbyshire police tried to find two
women for driving
five miles for a walk and then two days
later
the prime minister traveled seven miles
to go in a bike ride
well rajiv as you will appreciate and
understand that when it comes to our
outstanding police officers
they exercise their professional
judgment constantly and they have been
as martin has said you know since day
one of this pandemic
through the regulations through the
guidance that comes out through
mpcc and through the college of policing
now obviously
in the case of derbyshire the local
police force reviewed that entire case
and they looked at it and the fine was
actually rescinded
but i but look i think we have to come
back to the current state of plan the
situation that we are in right now
um the fact of the matter is we are in a
pandemic we're in a health pandemic
you have already heard me say the number
of people that have
passed away died 1243 fatalities
reported today when we have people dying
when we have people
tragically succumbing to this virus we
all have to exercise our judgment and be
very conscientious
as to how we act when it comes to
exercising
again i do say stay local staying local
is absolutely crucial
you know by all means take your daily
exercise but it's up to all of us in the
right way to exercise that judgment as
to how we do it not socializing
you know making sure that we're acting
in the right way staying away from other
people
which is clearly what the prime minister
did when he was taking his daily
exercise and i think quite frankly we
all have to ask ourselves
what can we do to keep everyone safe and
absolutely
reduce our contact with each other
martin
i think rajiv all i would well i would
add on the derbyshire incident
particularly as you as you will know
that was reviewed by the force and the
decision was taken to rescind those um
those those fixed penalty notices and
it's an important point because
it became quite it became a big story
and over the last 10 months
there have been a handful of stories
that have become quite
iconic i think the important point to
make is from a from the service point of
view
this is unprecedented territory we are
dealing with regulations that are
health regulations highly unusual and i
think the police service has stepped up
really well
to deal with that there have on
occasions been issues where we've made a
decision that it turns out
with the officer's decision was not the
right decision we have always reviewed
those we have dealt with those issues
we have dealt with the individuals
involved i think it would be
impossible to imagine that we could be
dealing with such a such a
an extraordinary uh experience for
everybody over the last 10 months
and all the hundreds of thousands of
interactions
that police officers are having with
members of the public across the uk
so sometimes mistakes will be made but
we always have looked at those
we've looked at them clear quickly we've
dealt with the individuals
the the members of the public concerned
and we have said when we've got
something wrong
and i think that's been a really
important part of how we've dealt with
this
really difficult 10 months and and
undoubtedly for
for some time to come thank you reggie
we'll move to um alan tolha's from
politics home
alan good afternoon good afternoon home
secretary and
i wanted to ask about the vaccination
centers that have opened this week
there's been
some concern they may not be properly
ventilated the government's own
sage subcommittee has warned enhanced
mitigation measures
are needed to deal with the new covert
variant
the government says they are covered
secure but what exactly does it actually
mean can you give some
examples of what measures are being
taken and what can you say to reassure
the over 80s and the vulnerable that
they are safe to go to
the government's own vaccination plan
states the role of volunteers is to sit
with people in reception and help
elderly disabled people
out of their cars you know is that
covered secure we've already seen
a vaccination center in cardiff have to
pause the rollout due to an outbreak
of chronovirus cases so will staff and
volunteers at these centers be
prioritized for vaccination as well
right well thank you for your question i
think first of all um
yesterday the government um published
its vaccine delivery plan and
you've all heard about the big vaccine
centers in particular
and the number of people that we're
concentrating on in terms of getting
the vaccine too these vaccination sites
you would have seen the pictures i think
many members of the public have as well
have seen how cubicles are spaced out
and obviously we're working with
public health england and following all
the guidance in terms of the safety
and protective measures that are
required for the staff
in those centres but also for the
individuals coming in for the
immunization
so if i can just go to dr dewalker
because obviously we've been speaking
about the excel center which is a good
example
of how this is all coming together yes
thank you so um i visited the excel last
week before it opened
and i've been at a vaccine center
actually uh just
uh just this morning and i think
we have absolutely rigid standards of
infection prevention control
in all of these vaccine centers i think
nhs staff
for them they see their colleagues who
are working on critical
care and in general and acute wards and
they know the pressure that they're
working under
they don't want to inadvertently pass
the infection onto other people
when you go there you will see as the
home secretary says very strict rules
about the size of cubicles
the distances that have to be maintained
there's gel everywhere people are
wearing masks and people are paying a
great deal of attention
to how these centers are set up we've
spent months preparing to set these
centers up
and we're guided by really strict rules
about
the way in which they should be
configured in order to prevent just the
sorts of things you're talking about
thank you doctor talker alan thank you
very much
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news